Not sure if you can answer this,
but the question, first question really is
how effective you think the guidance has been?
Um, and you've talked about just over 2000 downloads.
How many, um, businesses that you think in New Zealand are
actively engaging with it or following it?
Um, well, you, you're right.
So it's a really hard question to Yeah, to know.
Um, we've got, I guess, broader indications
of what's happening to AI use, um, both in, in New Zealand
and other countries where guidance has been, um, introduced.
Um, it's fair to say that New Zealand was a, a bit
of a slow adopter,
but like all countries where, you know,
use increasing rapidly.
So from a, uh, I guess a slight, um, uh,
slight slower start, you're seeing this, this big uptake
and we haven't seen any cases where there's been, um,
I guess poor use of ai.
So it's encouraging there, but, uh,
but we have no specific information on, on, uh,
AO business users yet.
Sure. So there've been no, um, opportunity to see
within that number of downloads, the di with the, the divide
between small or medium, uh, medium to large size businesses
or small businesses who accessed it. You'd have
No, no, we've been able to do that.
I mean, the, the other thing that we have been doing though
is, um, we've started to introduce some of the concepts
and the guidance into o other parts of the NB offering.
So we run the, the business.gov website,
and so that started to have an AI section and also we look
after the regional business partner network.
So this is all the, um, the regional contracts
to help different business advisors.
And, um, uh, dove had a, um, a kind
of a train the trainer AI session as well,
so you're seeing the demand for
that sort of tool picking up.
Sure. And, um, you talked also about the,
in your opening comments about the, the pace of change.
So you're right, guidance and then the, the technology
and the resource continues to evolve.
Um, a few questions on that.
The first, is there a schedule
or is there a mechanism in place for you to be able
to review the guidance based on the changes?
Uh, so we haven't got a schedule
or a planned, um, review, um,
but it is something that is said we're, we're rolling out,
um, through other means.
Probably the, the things that we're,
we're doing is very much putting it into the small business,
um, uh, services that envy provides.
And, and just thinking about the role of government here,
um, it, it's not gonna be something like, uh,
an envy type beast
that's gonna help a sophisticated business pick up the, the,
the very edgy, newest, um, part of, part of any technology
that, that's, the privacy sector will be able to do
that much better than than we
could, and they'll do it ahead of us.
The, the thing that we're doing is more helping
probably some of the laggards or the more nervous
kind of smaller businesses.
And, and for that, um, that cohort,
the guidance is still very relevant
'cause it's much more kind of the bare bones, the basics of
how you pick this, this tool up.
Sure. So if the, um, I agree, there'll be,
there'll be business and enterprise that'll be leading
and there will be people who might
follow or are looking to follow.
How are you enabling the two-way conversation
between the guidance and the future shaping of the guidance
and the leaders in the sector so that it can be updated,
refreshed, and, um, able to lead the laggers with
what they should be doing now as opposed to six months ago,
Uh, really through industry engagement.
So, um, we were fortunate enough that, um, a lot
of industry participants help with this guidance.
So, um, tech NZ and the, and Maori data leaders.
And, and, and a lot of those different organizations, um,
gave up their time and we, we, those relationships continue
and have been in place for a long time.
So, um, yeah,
I guess the hypothetical situation will be when,
when those groups start to say, oh, we need to need
to update the guidance, we should.
Um, the other thing of course is that it's a web form,
it's not a, it's not a printed document.
So, um, updating it is,
that's something we can do recently quickly.
Alright. Actually, I had ask us up, uh, to the, uh,
previous question that we've been asked about the downloads.
So that downloads number of downloads is not an indication
of numbers of businesses using AI because Yeah.
So just wanted to clarify that.
And there is no like, kind of, uh, obligation on businesses
to basically tick that box before they use AI that yet.
So that's not an indication. Just wanted to clarify that.
Uh, new primary from Marina Williams.
Um, in relation to
what you were saying about the other partners that you work
with, really interested in that.
What did the, um, data ethics
and innovation tell you about the challenges
that businesses would face using Maori data?
Uh, so, um, uh, the, the, we,
we lent on their expertise there, so we're,
we're not the, the data experts.
Um, but what they, there's probably two elements.
One, one was, um, uh, data is something
that should be protected, whether it's
multi data or any data.
And, and so businesses should be careful that they're not,
um, breaching any privacy concerns.
So some of the, the, the broad, um, I guess support
and the guidance applies, um, even more so
to Maori data from that perspective than than others.
But some of the sorts of things that, that they had is, um,
they have a principle of, um, when using Maori data
businesses should ensure they do no harm
and, um, ensure that they're actually doing something
that's, that's positive for Maori.
So that there's both a perspective
of not doing something untoward
and also looking for opportunities.
And some of the principles they talk about is, um, you know,
if, if you are a business that, um, I dunno,
it was obviously leaning into Maori data,
so you were doing something like a tedo
education tool or something like that.
Um, there, there was some, some, um,
important steps you'd take.
So one, you'd, you'd obviously involve, um, Maori, so you,
you'd find, um, some sort of, um, leader or community group
or something to give you a perspective on, on the use.
Uh, you make sure that there are, um, uh,
protections in the data, so it's not something
that can be lost or, or, or, um, hacked or something.
Um, you should, um, uh,
I guess my example doesn't work for this, but,
but you should control for bias.
So say if you're doing something on, I dunno, something
that would, uh, have some sort
of bias towards certain communities
or indigenous perspectives, well then you,
you need to make sure that that doesn't happen.
Um, and then the final one is making sure you have a human
in the loop so that you could at the end look at it
and go, well, hang on, is this actually sp out something
that we think is a fit for purpose product?
Um, really interested in that.
How, um, so larger businesses, this isn't necessarily a tool
for, what is the role of MB with some of those, um,
larger business out AI feels like facial recognition in
supermarkets say, um, the challenges for them using, um,
recognition of, of money will be different from
anywhere else in the world, but they're doing it.
So there seems to me to be a natural role for, you know,
public organizations to work alongside that in New Zealand
to make it appropriate for our,
our temperature on those issues.
How, how do they come to you? Do they come to you?
Can, can you see a role of working alongside?
So it's, it's a, a bit of a broad church on this issue
'cause it is a really, um, tricky thing.
So the, the main leads are, um, as you said, the, the center
for data ethics has got, um, really good guidance on this.
And the other one is the privacy commissioner has just
updated the, uh, the, the, uh, um, tools for this. It seems
Really Good. Yeah. And
it's, and it's the sorts of things
where we'll work as a team, we'll point businesses to,
that's the, that's the, um, the, the,
the best approach you can take. Mm-hmm.
Alright. Um, primary from, uh, sorry.
And primary, you Pushed us up. Yeah,
My new primary. Um, so
appreciate what you said about involving Maori data.
So pretty much it was privacy, data security
and protecting against, uh, bias.
Wouldn't that be actually general advice for any use of ai?
Uh, absolutely.
Um, so there's, um, uh, good principles there,
but probably the, the, the differences is, um,
your opportunity to actually involve some sort
of local iwi group if you were doing something specific to
that area or, or getting a perspective.
But yeah, the, the broad principles of protecting data,
ensuring security, and watching Apple bias, that
that good data in principle, um, is,
is is good broader approach,
Um, to my primary chair.
That Right. Um, one, one thing is we talk about the use
of AI businesses using ai.
What do you envisage that act actually looks like?
Because if you can imagine, I know businesses using
imaging software, um, photo software,
AI is already already built in into some of these tools.
Mm-hmm. Are we actually looking at this wrong
by actually separating AI as an independent thing
rather than actually it's, it's a tool like a calculator
that is actually inbuilt into a lot of software these days.
Um, so what's your view on actually what, how, how, how do,
how do you actually describe businesses using ai?
Uh, so, um, but really good point.
I, I'd make the distinction almost about
how mature the technologies are.
So, um, absolutely, if you look forward five years time,
we'll think of AI as just, I dunno, trying
to imagine the world before Google
and we're trying to convince people
to use Google rather than going to the library.
Um, it would've seemed like a, like a big shift,
but now it's just, well it's, it's just a tool
and you, you use the tool for the,
for the job you've got in front of you.
Um, what we're seeing with AI though,
is initially there was the suspicion or this nervousness,
and so we wanted to try and demystify that.
And where businesses have gone first, I guess is the, um,
those repetitive tasks
and the, the, um, uh, the, you know, the, the,
the organizing information, maybe the, the data clean, the,
um, the research, the, the, the, the kind of some of those,
um, I guess drafting emails
or things like that, um, in time, you'd expect
that they will just become just another tool.
The interesting one will be, um, what we see with some
of the more, the newer things
that we can't really think about yet.
So I mentioned AI agents, some introduction, um,
that's something where, um,
you can see businesses will start to use that,
but it would still be a role for helping them navigate that.
So if it's a, I don't know, an AI agent
to tokenize your calendar, well that's probably fine
if it's a AI agent to, um, pay your power
or probably that's fine,
but if it starts to get into a more serious
financial decision, maybe not.
So there's kind of this evolutionist
of the technology matures.
So, so you're mainly focusing on the large language
models, uh, for this guidance rather than actually some
of the technologies which
has probably already been built in.
If we look in healthcare, we look at radiology.
Is that, is that really where you
see the guidance actually setting?
Can I see Something? Yeah, I, I think, uh,
there are some areas where the guide,
I mean the radiology example is one
where this guidance is perhaps less relevant,
although there is still decision criteria that you have
to apply with some of the findings
and the guidance would be relevant,
but I think it does go broader than large language models.
So anything that goes in different,
since automated decision making this guidance
is gonna be really important.
So there's quite a range of, I think as you highlighted,
there are a wide range of uses of AI
and that the guidance is reasonably flexible
in terms of how it applies to them. Mm-hmm.
Uh, Dr. David Sen, thank you, uh, pji, um,
just following on a little bit from Hamish, um, yes.
And, and politicians will be pleased to know
that they can get their agent to write their speeches
and their posts
and everything as long as they put the right
data in protected.
Um, and we can see that moving really fast.
So the opportunities for productivity are huge
as you guys are well aware of for New Zealand in particular.
Um, but the other side of that is, is safety.
And there's huge concerns around safety with, um,
all sections of society that you can think of
where we are using images and we're using people's voices
and we're able to put them
and we can use the data to do all sorts of things.
Um, and when we discuss this
with our constituency,
that's the prime thing that comes to mind.
They're really, really worried about the dangers of it.
So that question's not so much about asking you to solve
that because we kind of can't.
But it seems to me these, these two tracks, one
that you are primarily working on, which is helping
to increase productivity and helping small businesses
to do things faster and so on
and so forth in all of us actually.
And then there's this other safety side
where people are really, really concerned.
My question is really this, how do we address that
as a parliament, as a government?
Because you, you may have one part of the solution,
you mentioned the center for Data care and,
and Privacy Commission.
Is there a way that we can start
to bring these things together
or do they need to be discovered understood in
separate domains?
So, um, I guess the, the, the guidance has, um,
an important word in its title, which is responsible use.
So, um, there, there are, um, yeah, there, there's plenty
of sections about how businesses can navigate this,
but one of them is on the, um, how you comply
with different legal obligations
and, um, you know, the,
the parliament's perspective is ensuring that those, um,
those, those I guess fundamental laws are for purpose.
So, um, the AI strategy that was released at the same time,
um, the government, um, indicated its position,
which was not to produce a bespoke AI act
and instead to rely on the,
the fundamental laws that New Zealand has.
So there's things like the Privacy Act, the Commerce Act,
the Competition Act, and they all have elements that apply
to all technologies and the is well, how do we ensure
that they stay for, for purpose of ai?
Sure. So there's a, um, an update to the um,
uh, commerce act that's coming through and,
and it's all about how, um, uh, avoiding price collusion
and, and the too long didn't read is, um, you can't say, oh,
it wasn't me, it was the algorithm.
And this isn't the idea of, um, uh, say three companies,
um, analytically, uh, use the same AI pricing software,
the AI price pricing software, then cos will the best way
to ensure profit maximizations collude.
And inadvertently they now have broken
a, a law in New Zealand.
So we're updating the legislation just
to make sure that that is clear.
And then probably the other one is the members bill
that's been, um,
that's been drawn the harmful digital, uh, communications.
Um, it's there on kind of the doctrine of images.
So it's, it's that sort of stuff that,
that parliament will need to, um, stay live to.
Yeah. Supplement supplementary. Yeah.
Um, yeah, so, and I agree with all of that,
but it seems quite reactive.
Um, all of the pieces of legislation,
the ministries and so on and so forth.
And you also mentioned that
how fast this is moving in fields I work in,
that's they're sort of saying this is the competitive
advantage for the 21st century,
and I agree, how the heck do we stay with this?
You know, is there a way
that we can actually bring the right people together
to stay ahead this as much as possible?
Because what you just explained, it's a kind
of piecemeal reactive way of dealing with it. Hmm.
I mean, I, I don't have the, um, uh, exact answer here,
here, um, but probably the,
the one tool we do have is the international cooperation
that New Zealand has.
So, um, uh, the, um, AI summit
as in its third year in India, um, early next year,
and a lot of the, um, uh, the, the topics of
that are all about controlling risk.
Um, so I I I, I mean that's a very partial answer
and I apologize not having anything more,
but that, that's probably our best, best opportunity to say
That. Yeah. Thank you. I think it's
probably a question for us.
Yeah. A supplementary politic.
I just wanted to add and follow through with Dr.
David's, um, questions, um, the, the,
the responsible use, um,
and the law that sort of gives the structure,
how does mb um, expect
to weigh in on responsible use?
Um, I understand there will be laws, there will be
prosecutions, um, there will be all
of the guidelines and what is, are we
doing this alone?
And yes, there will be summits are are other countries ahead
of us in, in the sense of being able
to weigh in on responsible use because humans
and laws, you know, historically, um, in,
in a state of, um, pushing the boundaries.
So,
So the, um, internationally, the, the,
there's been two paths that have gone down in regulation.
So there's the specific AI act
and that's very much the, probably the European example is
the, is the obvious one there.
Um, or there's the relying on your,
your fundamental privacy laws
and competition, what have you.
Um, and today it's not clear which is the correct one.
Um, it seems as though, um, uh, I guess
businesses find it easier to work
with legislation already know.
Um, but, but the, the jury's still out on that.
Um, some of the, the interesting things that happen
around the world are, are the large test cases.
So there's, um, uh, I guess, uh, a case going
through in the US which is all about, um, uh,
it's like copyright type issues.
So these large, um, AI businesses that have, um,
built their models and,
and taught them on these data sets that were, um,
publicly available but not public.
And there's a big questionnaire of, well, um,
what's the right stance there?
And it would be, um, very hard for New Zealand
to do something with competition law
that's inconsistent with the global norms.
So that's probably where the, the the, um, the,
the big issues will land.
Okay. Alright.
I'll ask the next question. So about the hallucinations.
So have you done any kind of survey
of businesses about the awareness of that, um, aspect of ai?
Because that can be like a kind
of a trap for some, isn't it?
No, we haven't.
Um, I'm just thinking that there's been a few high,
high profile cases of it,
and that's probably, um, raising awareness, the, uh,
the one over in Australia with the consultancy that,
that turned out that a lot of their work was hallucinated,
um, that got a lot of coverage
and that's had quite an impact on that industry.
And I speak, other businesses are well aware as well,
but there's, there's been no survey of no hallucination
Because I'm just thinking about small businesses
because they don't have like resources to put into
or to crosscheck things sometimes.
And so what do you think there needs
to be like more done in that regard?
It's a hard one just focusing on, yeah.
Um, but at least where the guidance goes on it is,
it has uh, um, I guess advice on how to do good prompting
and, and doing things and,
and understanding that if you don't understand what the data
that it's trained on, you expose yourself to risks.
But then the, the really important one
there is the human in the loop.
Mm. So it's saying that, um, by all means, um,
let your large language model draft your statements or, or,
or your documents or what have you,
but have a human in the loop, um,
that there's a good application here to, um,
company directors as well.
So the obligations that they have, they can't just, um,
I dunno, let let a large language model summarize their
board pack and say, oh yeah, I've read the board pack,
that that isn't sufficient.
They still need to charge their obligations
by being a human in the loop.
It's probably worth noting too
that different industries
have different professional duties.
So if you're a lawyer and you use AI to do your law
and you make mistakes, that's not
very professional as a lawyer.
Whereas if you are a, a builder writing copy
for your latest internet ad,
you can probably accept quite a lot more risk. That's
Good point. Yeah.
That's very good. Um, yeah. Any other questions for Mr.
Ruben? Yeah, thank you. Um, coming back to some
of the earlier comments you talked about, you know,
we've looked at to other
countries, specifically to Australia.
So it seems to me in this space, um,
we are sometimes we are kind of a fast follower.
We've just, in this case feels more like we've just been a
follower and we, I think have an opportunity
to be a leader, but the window for
that is rapidly disappearing.
Do you think that that's still viable for New Zealand
to be a leader in this space?
And if so, what do you think we need to be thinking about?
So you, you mean in terms of AI usage by business
Ai? Well,
AI usage,
but also not, not, not,
not just from a guidance perspective, not from a kind
of retrospective, now this is happening now
that's happening, we are gonna update our guidance,
but more from the perspective of trying to get ahead of it
or trying to lead with our approach to it.
Yeah. I, I I think that's quite challenging.
I, I think it probably always has been.
So, um, as team mentioned,
the regulatory environment is very much globalized.
And, um, the reality is we're, we're a taker
of a majority of these tools.
So if you have co-pilot integrated into Microsoft Office
Suite that's running on open ai, um, that's the thing
that a lot of people are using
in, in your encounter with it.
And actually a lot of that stuff is driven
by the regulatory systems in place in the US and the eu.
And, um, if we got too far ahead of that, so if we sought
to put in place measures
that weren't in those major jurisdictions, their ability
to regulate could end up being quite constrained.
So, so I think it's, yeah,
I think there are geopolitical reasons why
it's difficult for us to be a leader.
Yeah. So, uh, can I just clarify on that?
So, because AI is kind of an international thing, right?
So that's why the approach needs to be kind of, uh,
international, taking all that into consideration.
Would that be the right way to describe it?
Yeah, I think it's, I think it's a good description. Yeah.
Any more questions? Ru um, members, any more questions?
No, looks like that was really good. Yeah.
Thank you so much to both of you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.